Speaking of strings, so text, there are more things we can do with that because a string is kind of
a special thing.
If I create a string here, so any text here, I can of course log it to the console, that shouldn't be
too surprising,
neither should the result be,
I'll of course get any text here but a string is basically just an array of characters.
So you could imagine this of being an array which has the a, the n, the y, this whitespace, t and so on.
Therefore we can also access string.length
and if I hit run, I get eight.
So I get the number of characters including the whitespace here
and this is important to know, that you can use a string like a character, so you can even go ahead and
add square brackets and access the element or let's say with the index two, the element with
an index of two.
What do you think we'll get if I hit run? We get
y
because remember, an array starts with the index of 0,
so A is 0, n is 1
and y has the index of 2.
Yes and again, we can use a string like an array here. Alternative to this approach,
we could have also used the charAt function which basically allows me to do the same,
so if I hit run now, I also get y. On a string,
we also can use the concat method and add a new string to it.
So now if I hit run, we get any text add a new string where it certainly isn't the perfect English but
I think you understand the point, that we can combine two arrays in the end here.
Of course we can also use slice and so on but we also get some special string methods, like
toUppercase.
What do you think I'll now get if I hit run? The same text but now converted to uppercase and of
course the same is available for lowercase.
I also could run split and then the character on which I want to split,
for example the whitespace.
What do you think we'll now see if I hit run? We get back an array which contains two strings as elements
in this array,
so we split this string
or this array kind of, on a certain character, the whitespace, therefore this whitespace isn't included
in any of the two elements here
but the element before and after the whitespace shows up as an individual element in the resulting array.
We also could have a case where we have a string with many whitespaces and if I log this string,
you see the whitespaces are part of the text here.
Now maybe I have some string where I don't want that excess whitespace, so I could call the trim function
and
what do you think we'll now get if I hit run?
Well, we don't have all these excess whitespaces in the end. Notice that we still have the whitespace in
the middle of the text but all the excess whitespaces at the end or beginning as you will see will get
stripped out
which for example is very useful when handling user input in some kind of form where users might be
or might have an extra whitespace before or after their name,
for example maybe they used their mobile phone and mobile phones might add an extra whitespace because
they expect the next word and they enter the whitespace for you.
So the user might submit a form where the name does have that extra whitespace
and that might lead to problems if you save this whitespace to the database or anything like that
and a simple check like this or a simple function like this can make sure that you trim out any excess
whitespaces and only have the raw text without the leading or trailing whitespaces. So that are
some important or useful string functions
and again check out the cheatsheet for links to resources where you can learn all of the available
functions
but generally as a string is treated like an array,
you might also try out all the array functions on a string and as just explained, some useful string
extra functions where it wouldn't make sense to go through them all here
but I think you get the point and you saw some of the most important ones in this lecture.